Add CROSS JOIN as option for join datasource (#13404)
apache/druid: docs/querying/datasource.md

SQL joins take the form:

```

> <o1> [ [ INNER | LEFT [OUTER] JOIN ON ] | CROSS JOIN <o2> 

Reviewer: Fyi I just remembered, RIGHT [OUTER] join syntax works as well.  Not widely used since SQL tends to read from left to right, but it's in the ANSI standard, and Druid SQL appears to be accepting it:

I'm not sure how the brackets work with "requires one of set" vs "optional", so here are the combinations to merge:

t1 INNER JOIN t2 ON
t1 LEFT [ OUTER ] JOIN  t2 ON
t1 RIGHT [ OUTER ] JOIN  t2 ON
t1 CROSS JOIN  t2

Reviewer 2: Given multiple conditions, I'd go back to the original, simpler format, then use the explanation to say which combinations are not allowed.

SQL joins take the form:

```

> <o1> [ INNER | LEFT [OUTER] | CROSS ] JOIN <o2> ON <condition>

Author: ```suggestion
<o1> [ [ INNER | LEFT [OUTER] JOIN ON ] | CROSS JOIN <o2> 
```

```

JOIN conditions have the following requirements:

> - You can only use equality statements in JOIN conditions. For example: `t1.x = t2.x`

Reviewer 2: "You can only use" --> "Druid supports only"

To make it clear that, although you might have used other conditions in other SQL tools, Druid supports only equality.

Also "equality statements" -> "the equality operator"

In SQL, a "statement" is the entire SELECT or INSERT construct. Here we're talking about an "operator", specifically a boolean binary operator.

Author: ```suggestion
- Druid only supports the equality operator, `=`, in JOIN conditions. For example: `t1.x = t2.x`
```

- You can use functions on the operands in JOIN conditions. For example: `LOWER(t1.x) = t2.x`

> - You apply multiple equality conditions using the AND operator. For example: `t1.x = t2.x AND t1.y = t2.y`

Author: ```suggestion
- You can apply multiple equality conditions using the AND operator. For example: `t1.x = t2.x AND t1.y = t2.y`
```

> - Inequality conditions are unsupported. For example: `t1.x <> t2.x`

Reviewer 2: This is redundant with the "you can only use equality".

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - Conditions are optional for CROSS JOIN.

Reviewer: I don't think CROSS JOIN will accept join conditions ...

Reviewer 2: From a comment in `Parser.jj`:
> We allow CROSS JOIN to have a join condition, even though that is not valid SQL; the validator will catch it.

This seems to say that the Calcite parser allows join conditions, but the Calcite validator fails if a condition is provided.

To avoid confusing users with this implementation detail, perhaps say:

> [ [ INNER | LEFT [OUTER] JOIN <o2> ON <condition> ] | CROSS JOIN <o2>

Or, just address it in text:

> CROSS JOIN does not accept an `ON` condition.

Author: ```suggestion
- CROSS JOIN does not accept an ON condition.
```
@paul-rogers I did this in both places because I the syntax should be correct, but we can state it in English here for ease/clarity

|`right`|Right-hand datasource. Must be of type `lookup`, `query`, or `inline`. Note that this is more rigid than what Druid SQL requires.|
|`rightPrefix`|String prefix that will be applied to all columns from the right-hand datasource, to prevent them from colliding with columns from the left-hand datasource. Can be any string, so long as it is nonempty and is not be a prefix of the string `__time`. Any columns from the left-hand side that start with your `rightPrefix` will be shadowed. It is up to you to provide a prefix that will not shadow any important columns from the left side.|
|`condition`|[Expression](../misc/math-expr.md) that must be an equality where one side is an expression of the left-hand side, and the other side is a simple column reference to the right-hand side. Note that this is more rigid than what Druid SQL requires: here, the right-hand reference must be a simple column reference; in SQL it can be an expression.|
|`joinType`|`INNER`, `LEFT`|

> 

Reviewer: Add 'RIGHT' ?

But I notice in the descriptive paragraph you are using 'left' and right' to indicate the driving and joining tables ... unfortunately that might all need to change to accommodate the LEFT and RIGHT JOIN modes.   

Sorry for opening up a rats nest here ...

Reviewer 2: In Druid,`LEFT` is a more generic term for `OUTER`. `OUTER` meant "LEFT OUTER" in older versions of SQL. So, the term "RIGHT OUTER" had to be introduced. Given that, it seems modern syntax omits "OUTER" to give just `LEFT` and `RIGHT`. Reference: [left join](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_join_left.asp), [right join](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_join_right.asp).

However, [this reference](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-outer-joins/) says, "FULL OUTER JOIN is also refered to as OUTER JOIN." which didn't used to be true on many databases.

Checking the code (`Parser.jj`) finds that, in the Calcite dialect, `OUTER` is synonymous with `LEFT`.
